---
layout: post
title:  "PrestaShop 1.7.2.0 RC1 is open for feedback!"
subtitle: "Give it a go, and let us know!"
date:   2017-07-04 09:10:11
authors: [ xavierborderie ]
icon: icon-gift
tags:
- 1.7
- 1.7.2.x
- version
- releases
- development
---

PrestaShop 1.7.2.0 Release Candidate is now ready for you to test!

We are happy to announce that we are close to releasing 1.7.2.0. This minor version (in the [SemVer](http://build.prestashop.com/news/a-more-semantic-versioning-scheme/) meaning of the term) brings several new features and improvements to the 1.7 codebase, among which the return of Stock Management. We can’t wait to receive your feedback about it!

[Test PrestaShop 1.7.2.0 RC1 now!](https://download.prestashop.com/download/releases/prestashop_1.7.2.0-rc.1.zip){: .btn .btn-lg .btn-success}
{: .text-center}

This RC is a great opportunity for you to start playing with it before we release a stable version!<br/>
Go download and install it as a test store, either on your machine or your web hosting, then have a go it – and [give us your feedback](http://forge.prestashop.com/secure/CreateIssue%21default.jspa?selectedProjectId=11322&issuetype=1)!<br/>
Merchants, module developers, theme designers: We need YOU to test this new version of PrestaShop.

<b>The feedback period is open from today to July 16th, 10 PM GMT. PLEASE TEST NOW!</b>


## What you need to know about PrestaShop 1.7.2.0 RC1

This version of course includes all the fixes that were part of the 2 patch versions released since v1.7.1.0 in April 2017.

It also brings the following:

* **New Stock Management interface, with essential management of your inventory.**
* **New Translation page, with improved code and interface.**
* **New hooks on both the Product page and the Classic theme.**
* Improved Classic theme readability on low quality screens.
* Product page text areas now have a character counter.
* New localization packs for Algeria, Morocco, South Africa and South Korea.
* New Installer languages: Estonian, Finnish, Greek and Slovak.

...and many smaller things and needed fixes! [Check the full changelog here](https://assets.prestashop2.com/fr/system/files/ps_releases/changelog_1.7.2.0-rc.1.txt).

Among the added hooks, you can find:

* Front office, [thanks to @prestamodule](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/7688/files):
  * displayWrapperTop
  * displayWrapperBottom
  * displayContentWrapperTop
  * displayContentWrapperBottom 
* Back office product page, [thanks @martinfojtik](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/7613/files):
  * displayAdminProductsMainStepLeftColumnMiddle
  * displayAdminProductsMainStepLeftColumnBottom
  * displayAdminProductsMainStepRightColumnBottom
  * displayAdminProductsQuantitiesStepBottom
  * displayAdminProductsPriceStepBottom
  * displayAdminProductsOptionsStepTop
  * displayAdminProductsOptionsStepBottom
  * displayAdminProductsSeoStepBottom
  * displayAdminProductsShippingStepBottom


## How to give feedback about this RC

Have you found a bug? A curious behavior? An unexpected reaction? Please let us know as soon as possible! 

[Create a ticket on the 1.7 Forge project](http://forge.prestashop.com/secure/CreateIssue%21default.jspa?selectedProjectId=11322&issuetype=1), and [give us as much details as possible](http://build.prestashop.com/news/how-to-create-bug-report/)!


## Final note

So have at it! Download it, test it out with your theme/modules, and let us know what you like about it :)

[Test PrestaShop 1.7.2.0 RC1 now!](https://download.prestashop.com/download/releases/prestashop_1.7.2.0-rc.1.zip){: .btn .btn-lg .btn-success}
{: .text-center}

We’ll closely monitor your feedback, and are eager to hear from you!

Happy testing!


